# R-cafe

## Motivation
Reproducibility in research is a recent focus point for OUCRU and academia in general in recent years. This means results from published papers should be able to be reproduced independently by anyone. Under this umbrella of reproducibility, we should start focusing on the basics, that is versioning and collaboration using Git and GitHub with code written in R. The purpose of this study group is to promote the culture of independent-/self-learning of R and Git/GitHub in OUCRU. And from there, the culture of reproducibility in research.

## What is it and how is it structured?
- A study group consisting of instructors and learners. A study group will follow a cohort of learners in 3 months, with face-to-face sessions at OUCRU. A large portion of the activities will be conducted online via Teams, GitHub and a private StackOverflow.
- A study group will commence after a sufficient number of learners join. Learners that are interested will need to wait after the cohort finishes their program to join. This is so that instructors don’t have to keep circling back to old lessons every time a new learner joins the group. Learners in the study group that are not active (e.g. not actively pushing commit or commenting on GitHub issues) are removed from the study group. Learners need to follow a Code of Conduct. 
- Rather than being structured like a class lecture, this study group aims to promote self-learning through project-based learning (with a toy dataset) and provide the learners necessary skills to explore the problem with R themselves. Instructors will be available for help, questions, and code review on GitHub and face-to-face sessions. GitHub will be the main method of getting help and interacting with the study group. The GitHub repository for this study group will be hosted by the Modelling group’s organization on GitHub.
- Long-term goals are self-sustainability and promoting reproducibility in research through OSF. Learners graduated from cohorts will become instructors for new learners. The hope is that, with the framework in place, this study group will be self-sustainable (without the original team of instructors). Possibility of it being an official OUCRU study group with funding from Training team or NAT for face-to-face sessions (for tea/coffee breaks essentially). With OSF, code and data used in published studies will be publicly available for everyone, who can run the analyses/models themselves, or reuse the code/functions for their own data (given adequate references/citations).

